---
title: BFS
layout: post
category: study
tags: [c++, algorithm]
published: true
---

### Breadth First Search Algorithm

* Reviewing what I studied, how this work will be explained as well. 
---

### Graph Traversal 

When we have a graph with nodes and edges, the problem of starting from a specific node and visiting all other nodes is called a Graph Traversal Problem or Graph Search. This traversal problem can be properly stated as:

>> Given a graph G = <V, E>, starting from a specific node s, visit all nodes (vertices) v in V.

### BFS

BFS starts by expanding a frontier from the starting point (frontier: nodes previously visited). It then visits adjacent nodes from the current node.

BFS visits child nodes before grandchild nodes, making it equivalent to Level Order Traversal in trees (Root -> Left -> Right).

It is typically implemented using a Queue. The algorithm starts by placing the starting node in the queue, then repeatedly removes a node from the queue, checks all adjacent nodes, marks unvisited nodes as visited, and adds them to the queue. This process continues until the queue is empty.

### Implementation

This implementation made an assumption that we are given adjacent link list. 

```c++
bool visited[9];
vector<int> graph[9];

void bfs(int start) {
    queue<int> q;
    q.push(start);
    visited[start] = true;

    while(!q.empty()) {
        int node = q.front()
        q.pop();

        for(int i = 0; i < graph[node]; i++){
            int adjacentNode = graph[node][i];
            if (!visited(adjacentNode)) {
                q.push(adjacentNode);
                vistied[adjacentNode] = true;
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Time Complexity
* The Time complexity would be O(V + E). where V is the Vertex, E is the Edge.

### Resource
* [C++ Data Structures and Algorithm Design Principles: Leverage the power of modern C++ to build robust and scalable applications](https://www.amazon.com/Data-Structures-Algorithm-Design-Principles-ebook/dp/B07SYJSGVD?ref_=ast_author_mpb)